Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend 


The Bat and the Weasels 
 
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  Shortly
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second
time escaped.  
 
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.  

 
The Ass and the Grasshopper 
 
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger. 

The Mole and His Mother 
 
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to him
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of
frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.  
 

The Herdsman and the Lost Bull 
 
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf. 
Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the
Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may
only secure my own escape from him in safety."  
 

The Hare and the Tortoise 
 
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing her
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course. 
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise
had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
fatigue.  
 
Slow but steady wins the race.  